---
title: SpringOne2GX 2013 Recap
layout: post
date: 2013-10-06
---

This year I had the pleasure of attending SpringOne2GX.  Right on the
heels of PlatformCF(which I also got to attend: Day 1 and Day 2),
SpringOne had some exciting announcements and over a hundred sessions to
choose from across nine tracks.  In addition to the sessions, there were
a few keynotes with some exciting announcements.

The keynotes were held at night, after drinks and dinner, which
contributed to relaxed and open feeling presentations.  Paul Maritz
welcomed everyone and expressed his excitement for the threshold at
which he sees computing.  He recounted some important points in the
history of computing, and asserted that we are at a point of change.  He
expressed his vision that IaaS is the new hardware, and PaaS is the new
operating system, and that openness is critical for the developer in
this new paradigm.  Maritz passed the stage along to Adrian Coyler, who
outlined and defined Spring IO, the new organizational model for the
Spring ecosystem.  In addition to the new organizational model and new
components, Coyler announced Spring is moving towards platform releases,
where all of the individual components will be tested together.  David
Syer followed Coyler, and where he demoed Spring Boot.  Spring Boot is
an opinionated tool that helps configure your project so you don’t have
to.  He showed how quick it makes development of a web app in a live
coding session.  He built a basic REST API in about 8 lines of Groovy
(with the handy new @RestController annotation), and used Spring Boot to
pull in the necessary beans and add an embedded tomcat.  Moments later,
the entire hall was accessing the app and watching the stats update live
on the projection screen.  Did I mention there was no XML:  "I haven’t
used [XML] for 6 months or so and I’m kind of not missing it."  Juergen
Hoeller took the stage next to introduce some of the changes coming in
Spring 4, including great support for WebSockets.  The keynote ended
with a bang: Chris Beams unveiling the new [Spring IO](http://spring.io)
website live using blue-green deployments in Cloud Foundry([here's how
he did
it](http://www.nofluffjuststuff.com/blog/matt_stine/2013/07/blue_green_deployments_on_cloud_foundry)).
The site will soon be open-sourced, and is intended to be a reference
for using Spring Boot.  The following night's keynote speakers covered
the new release of Grails, Spring Batch, and Spring XD.

The diversity of sessions was refreshing and the quantity was
overwhelming (impossible to attend 30 great sessions every day!).  As a
JavaScript developer, I wasn't sure how much I'd be able to get out of
the conference, but I found multiple sessions in every time slot that
competed for my attendance.  I'm almost glad I don’t have a Java or
Groovy background as the decision of which session to go to would border
on paralyzing!  Luckily, every session was recorded and will be made
available at some point.
